# Change Log
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See also [JsonSchemaChanges.md](JsonSchemaChanges.md) for a list of changes in the JSON Schema for API model files.

## [ICD v1.3.2] - 

### Added

- Added "master" as an API version that is updated automatically from GitHub on startup or refresh of the web app.

- Added support for LaTeX math formulas in description texts, delimited by $\`...\`$ for inline or \`\`\`math...\`\`\` for a block.
  See [examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/publish-model.conf](examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/publish-model.conf) and
  [examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/command-model.conf](examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/command-model.conf) for examples. 
  The LaTeX string is converted to an image and then inserted in the HTML or PDF.

- Added support for UML markup in description texts, based on [PlantUML](https://plantuml.com/), delimited by \`\`\`uml...\`\`\`.
  See [examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/component-model.conf](examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/component-model.conf). 
  __Note__: The [GraphViz](https://graphviz.org/download/) apps needs to be installed on the server (or local machine, for the command line) in order to use this feature. 

  
- Added icd-viz command line app, based on GraphViz/Dot and Ed Chapin's `icdRelationships.py`, that generates a graph of component relationships.

### Changed

- Added new option to icd-git command: `--ingestMissing`: Ingests any APIs or ICDs that were published, but are not yet in the local database, plus any master branch versions.


## [ICD v1.3.1] - 2020-06-08

### Added

- Added icd-db command line option to increase font size for PDFs.

### Changed

- Changed PDF and Archive buttons to display a popup with options for orientation and font size.

## [ICD v1.3.0] - 2020-06-04

### Changed

- Fixed a bug that requires rebuilding the icd database. This is done automatically when you run icdwebserver,
  or you can run `icd-git --ingest` to do it manually. 
  
- Added the following subsystems back to the allowed list for the 2.0 model file schema: ENC, STR, M2S, M3S, TINS
  and created the related repos under https://github.com/tmt-icd/.


## [ICD v1.2.1] - 2020-06-01

### Added

- Added error message for duplicate component name in different directories

- Added simple auth/login dialog for use on public servers (Use -Dicd.isPublicServer=true)

- Added code to automatically tag API GitHub repos when an API is published (For example: "v1.2"),
  to make it easier to compare API versions 

### Changed

- Removed alarms from the "Missing Items" report generated by icd-db
- Alarm changes: Components can no longer subscribe to alarms
- Alarm property name changes (only for schema-2.0): "acknowledge" changed to "autoAck" (Opposite meaning)

__Note: If you are using modelVersion 2.0, please update and run: `icd-git --ingest` to rebuild the local icd database.__

- Fixed some issues with browser history after clicking on HTML links in the icd web app

- Removed `-Dicd.allowUpload=false` option, replaced with `-Dicd.isPublicServer=true`, which controls 
  the features displayed when running the icd web server on a public server. 
  
- Improved warning message displayed in HTML/PDF output for missing components

## [ICD v1.1.2] - 2020-05-14

### Added

- Added an optional "role" field for received commands. The allowed values are "eng", "admin" or "user" (default: "user").
  Sending a command to a component will require the correct user role for the subsystem in the CSW AAS auth service.

### Changed

- Minor CSS changes to support different screen sizes

- Updated archive size for taiDate type to 12 bytes (was 16)

- Updated icd-web-server.sh script (used to run on public server)

- Removed unneeded subsystems

## [ICD v1.1.1] - 2020-04-20

### Added

- Added option to generate PDFs in portrait or landscape orientation 
 (Landscape orientation is preferred, so that there is enough room in the many tables in the PDF output).

- Updated itextpdf dependency version to itext-7

- PDFs for published APIs and ICDs are now cached (Only for full, published APIs and ICDs without references 
  to external subsystems - i.e.: The "Search all Subsystems" option is not checked).

## [ICD v1.1.0] - 2020-03-21

### Changed

- For modelVersion = "2.0": Removed the "prefix" setting from component-model.conf, 
   since after changes in CSW, prefix is always just $subsystem.$component
  (Component names can contain dots and spaces, except leading or trailing)

- For modelVersion = "2.0": Component names can no longer contain a dash "-" (to match changes in CSW)

- Fixed an issue where the version of the second subsystem in an ICD was ignored

- Fixed an issue where after renaming a component, the old name could show up

## [ICD v1.0.2] - 2020-03-06

### Changed

- Fixed issue where subscribed telemetry and eventStreams were being ignored
  (Now they are automatically converted to events, since telemetry and eventStreams have been removed in the new JSON schema)

## [ICD v1.0.1] - 2020-03-03

### Changed

- Made changes to allow inner document links in MarkDown descriptions (DEOPSICDDB-54)

- Changed link targets to ensure unique names (in case two events in different components have the same name) 

- Fixed bug in web app dealing with "Search all Subsystems" option

- Changes to allow embedded dots in component names

- Updated dependencies to fix issue with PDF generation (DEOPSICDDB-93)
 
## [ICD v1.0.0] - 2020-02-21

### Added

- Added a new overview/status dialog that displays a table of the latest published APIs and ICDs for a selected subsystem.

- Added Unpublish button to publish dialog (Use in case you published something by mistake). 

- Added confirmation popup for publishing or unpublishing an API or ICD.

- Added an "Archive" item to the webapp that displays a PDF detailing the sizes of all archived items (events, etc.) in the selected subsystem and component (default: all subsystems).

- Added the icd software version to the title in the Status page.

### Changed

- The Publish dialog access is restricted to those with write access to the
  [ICD-Model-Files](https://github.com/tmt-icd/ICD-Model-Files)  repository
  and is only enabled when starting icdwebserver with the `-Dicd.isPublicServer=true`
  option.

- Fixed issue that could cause PDF generation to fail if embedded HTML in description
  text was not valid XHTML.

## [ICD v0.17] - 2019-12-06

### Added

- Added *total event size* and *yearly accumulation* to the display for archived events (also added to the Archived Items report produced by icd-db).
   Note that for some types, such as strings, the sizes are only guesses, since the string length is not known ahead of time. 
   If `maxRate` is zero or not defined, 1 Hz is assumed.
   Note also that the actual space required to archive events may be much less, due to the storage format (CBOR), compression, etc.

### Removed

- Removed `minRate` and `archiveRate` from the 2.0 JSON Schema for APIs. From now on, only `maxRate` should be used, which is the maximum publish rate for the event in Hz. This is used to calculate the *yearly accumulation* or size of the data for archived events for a year.

## [ICD v0.16] - 2019-11-18

### Added

- Added a new Publish dialog to the icd web app

- The `Upload` feature in the icd web app. which allows you to ingest local model files into the ICD database,
  can now be disabled by changing the `icd.isPublicServer` configuration setting 
  in icd-web-server/application.conf or by starting the web app like this: `icdwebserver -Dicd.isPublicServer=true`.
  The Upload feature should be disabled when `icdwebserver` is running in a public network and should only 
  display the actual API and ICD releases, which are stored on GitHub. 
  
- Updated the list of allowed subsystem names for ICD model files
  (The old list is only allowed when modelVersion is set to "1.0". If it is set to "2.0", the new list is used).

## [ICD v0.15] - 2019-11-06

### Changed

- Bug fixes

### Added

- Added support for new types for attributes. The list of available types matches those implemented in CSW parameter sets:
  (*array, struct, boolean, integer, number, string, byte, short, long, float, double, taiDate, utcDate, raDec, eqCoord, solarSystemCoord, minorPlanetCoord, cometCoord, altAzCoord, coord*)


## [ICD v0.14] - 2019-10-29

### Changed

- Changed the default JSON schema for model files. The old 1.0 schema is still supported. You can use the new model file formats by setting modelVersion="2.0" in component-model.conf and subsystem-model.conf. 

-  The old and new JSON schema descriptions are now under [icd-db/src/main/resources](icd-db/src/main/resources) in the 
 [1.0](icd-db/src/main/resources/1.0) and [2.0](icd-db/src/main/resources/2.0) directories. 
  Examples of the old and new formats can be found in the [examples](examples) directory. 
  
- With the new JSON schema for attributes, the values for *exclusiveMinimum* and *exclusiveMaximum* are the numerical values 
  (previously it was a boolean value). 

- Changed the icd web app (*icdwebserver*) to support *component to component ICDs* as well as viewing selected components in an API.

- Changed the icd web app to automatically ingest published APIs and subsystems from GitHub if missing on the first start
 (previously they were ingested only as needed, which caused delays and other issues)

- Bug fixes

### Removed

- Removed *telemetry* events and *eventStreams* from the publish model
  (These are automatically converted to *events* when imported from modelVersion 1.0 files).
  
- Removed *archive* field from alarm model.

### Added

- Added *observeEvents* and *currentStates* as an event types for the publish model.

- Added more required fields to the alarm model: 
    *location, alarmType, probableCause, operatorResponse, autoAck, latched.*

- Added support for *struct* types for attributes.
  See [examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/publish-model.conf](examples/2.0/TEST/envCtrl/publish-model.conf) for some sample struct declarations.


## [ICD v0.12] - 2019-08-15

### Added

- New `icd-git` command line tool and features in the icd web app. 
  Now published versions of subsystem APIs and ICDs are managed with GitHub repositories and JSON files (See [README.md](README.md)).
  
- Now warnings are displayed for subscribed items where there is no publisher, or sent commands/configurations, where no receiving end was defined.

- New `--target-component` option to the [icd-db](icd-db) command line app: 
  Can be used together with the `--component` option to create a PDF for an ICD between two components in different subsystems,
  or just to restrict the document to items related to the target component.
  
- Added two new icd-db options: --archive (-a) to generate a report of all events that have "archive" set to true,
  and --missing (-m) to generate a report listing published events with no subscribers, subscribed events with no
  publishers, referenced components with no definition, etc.
  
- Added a new primitive type "taiDate" that can be used in ICD model files to indicate a TAI date or time type. 

### Changed

- Removed the *Publish* feature from the icd web app. 
  Publishing is now done by a TMT admin using the `icd-git` command line tool.
  
- Changed the layout for APIs and ICDs to include a summary table at top with links to details below.

- Changed the ICD PDF layout to display the published items from both subsystems, with links to the subscribers
  (instead of showing a list of the subscribed items)

- Changed the way the PDF document titles are created, so that (for the command line
  at least) you can have component to component ICDs. 
  For example, these two commands will generate an ICD PDF from a single component of IRIS to
  a single component of NFIRAOS and another one between two components in NFIRAOS 
  (*Note that if the versions are not specified, you get the latest unpublished version*):
```$xslt
   icd-db -s IRIS:1.5 -t NFIRAOS:1.3 --component csro-env-assembly --target-component encl -o csro-env-assembly-encl.pdf

   icd-db -s NFIRAOS -t NFIRAOS --component dm --target-component rtc -o dm-rtc.pdf
```  
  
## [ICD v0.11] - 2016-02-22

### Changed

- Bug fixes and changes that were suggested in the last review.
  
- Incompatible changes have been made, so existing Mongodb databases should be deleted
  (for example with the command: icd-db --drop db) and any existing ICD files should be validated against the new schema and reimported. 
  You can do this using the web app. See the README.md files in the source code for more information.


